Welcome to the reflection!

#### 1.0 The Importance of Documentation: Why this page exists
The creation of the Tree Ottawa game has reinforced many assertions that have come up in relevant digital humanities scholarship. However, the importance of documentation is by far the most critical. It allows for the technical knowledge and critical thought wrapped up in the actual creation of the "thing," whatever it may be, to exist beyond its immediate end product. To me, documentation is akin to a manual of bike repair. With it, you view the product in a new light, and ideally you are able to go back and recreate (to an extent) the original outcome. Or, even better, you can improve it. 

As Jenny Kidd, a DH scholar and author of "Digital storytelling and the performance of memory," asserts, “carrying memory for an assumed infinitum is a task the digital media ably take on." However, she notes this task is not without its challenges. She is quick to point out that things die in the digital much as they do in real life. File formats become obsolete, as do storage methods. Web hosting platforms go under, and may take your data with them. Nonetheless, new media have an “integral role to play in what is remembered, the form in which it is stored, and, later, how it will be retrieved.”[1]

[1] Jenny Kidd, Digital Storytelling and the performance of memory,” in Save As…Digital Memories. Ed. Joanne Garde-Hansen, Andrew Hoskins, Anna Reading. 2009: Hampshire, New York,167-183. Page 167.

#### 2.0 Using ARIS
Tree Ottawa: Greber's Revenge was built in ARIS, a web-based gamebuilding platfom created by researchers are students at Filed Day Lab. The lab is in turn part of the Wisconsin Center for Educational Research at the University of Wisconsin - Madison. ARIS presented several advantages for gamebuilding: its graphic interface requires relatively little technical skill to use, its pre-built app drastically reduces the back-end work required to develop any kind of mobile game, and its many help guides ensure a relatively seamless experience. More pragmatically, small games built with ARIS can use existing infastructure to gain visibility. Players in Ottawa ho already use ARIS will be able to easily find Tree Ottawa, for example. 

However, ARIS hasn't been a flawless experience. As a "from the box" gamebuilder, it requires developers and players to act largely within the constraints set by the gamebuilder platform. Actions and movements must stem from set markets, plaques, and conversations, and follow a particular line. ARIS works best for geographical discovery, where players folow a set of clues and narrative points to uncover an end goal. Densely located points on a landscape confuse the game, as do unexpected plot points. In Tree Ottawa, for example, killing the player ultimately had to be done through conversation elements, rather than a set event occurring at the end of a conflict. The same can be said for fight scenes. 

These constraints stem from any gamebuilding platform, and indeed they continue to crop up even when developping something from "scratch," albeit to a lesser degree. However, ARIS also poses some more obvious drawbacks that are more unique to its own design. Most obviously, the platform runs almost exclusively on Apple products with an obvious preference for the the iPhone. Not only does this narrow the game's overall reach and adaptibility, it also poses some significant class-based ramifications. Currently, an iPhone 7 runs you $739 to $899 in Canada, depending on your chosen screen size. An iPhone 8 runs you between $929 and $1059, while an iPhone X starts at $1319. My own phone, which runs on an android platform and was purchased a year ago, cost $140. You can get cheaper smartphones than that, and many people do. By priviliging Apple's products, AIRS effectively puts a price on your free game, exclusing a vast swathe of your potential audience. Although an Android modification exists, it results in a distinctively watered-down gaming experience with much less functionality.

The ever-present need for iPhone access also greatly affected the game's development. As an android user surrounded by other android users, I wasn't able to test it nearly as fully as  would have liked. In fact, I tested it only once, when it was partially complete. I also played it once, on a friend's phone, about a few weeks later. It's an odd feeling, creating a game you know you will rarely play. I resulted in a certain degree of detachment in the development phase, though less so in the creation of characters in plot, as these can be enjoyed from anywhere.

#### 3.0 The Process
Creating Tree Ottawa: Greber's Revnge followed a relatively linear process, outlined below:
+ Preliminary brainstorming: What did I want to create, and in what platform? We were presented with three core options in our seminar: AIRS, LibraryBox, and MapMap (projection mapping). Each would yield a different product. Looking to integrate some fun into my last semester at school I selected ARIS. (Projection mapping is by no means ruled out, however, and I have a separate project planned for May 2018).
+ Concept design: How would the game take shape within ARIS? Would it be narrative-focused, or focus more on the straight delivery of information? How "game-like" was it to be?
+ Geographical path development: ARIS demands a geographical path, upon which all other elements (quests, conversations, etc) are based. So what shape does this path take? What features within Ottawa can be commented upon easily, and how walkable are they? Which area should be the focus of the plot?
+ Preliminary narrative development: How do you stitch meaning into your path? How do you make it something more than a guided walk, and why do you choose to do so? Characters were sketched out, a plot began to take shape, and the nuances of landscape were woven into simple storypoints.
+ Accessibility and representation testing: Without actually opening the game in ARIS (due to lack of iPhone), what can be fixed with its geographical and narrative paths? The route was tweaked to allow for an easier, nearly barrier-free walk, and the storyline was changed to accomodate new female characters.
+ The big test: Testing with an iPhone to sort out the recurring structural problems, like my misuse of the conversation tool.
+ Fine tuning: An ongoing process, this doesn't have a set start and end date. The game is, in theory, a living thing that should be tweaked and refined to accomodate new issues. In-class reports and conversations also greatly contributed to this ongoing stage, as well as the others set out earlier in this list. As with the accessibility and representation testing, this stage is made more complicated with my lack of access to iPhones.
+ Turning it in: An academic project, this game ultimately needed a set "end."

